# Difinition
graph
edges = E, edge could have a third component known as either a weight or a cost
vertices = V
directed graph = digraph
w is adjacent to v only if (w, v) belongs to E

path is a sequences of vertices w1, w2, w3, ... , wN such that (wi, wi+1) belongs to E
a simple path is a path such that all vertices are distinct except that the first and the last could be the same
a loop is the path v, v when there is a edge (v ,v)

a cycle in a directed graph is a path of length at least 1 such that w1 = wN
a directed graph is acyclic if it has no cycles.
directed acyclic graph = DAG

a undirected graph is connected if there is a path from every vertex to every other vertex.
a directed graph with this property is called strongly connected.
if a directed graph is not strongly connected, but the underlying graph (with directions) is connected, it is called weakly connected.

a complete graph is a graph in which there is an edge between every pair of vertices

# Topological Sort
topological sort is an ordering of vertices in a directed acyclic graph, such that if there is path from vi to vj, then vj appears after vi in the ordering.
Find a topological ordering -- find a vertex with indegree 0, print and remove it, the apply the strategy to the rest of the graph. (use a queue)

# Shortest Path
Currently there is no algorithms in which finding the path from s to one vertex is any faster (by more than a constant factor) than finding the path from s to all vertices.

## Unweighted shortest path
Use two boxes, box #1 stores unknown vertices with currentDis, box #2 stores unknown vertices with currentDis + 1. When box #1 is empty, currentDis++ and box #2 becomes box #1. 

Use a queue to implement these two boxes. First enqueue the start vertex, then while the queue is not empty, dequeue a vertex V, for every adjacent vertex W, assign V.dis+1 to its distance, then enqueue W. Since vertices enqueue at the rear, it is guaranteed that unknown vertices with currentDis would be processd first(box #1), then those with currentDis+1(box #2). 

## Single-sourced Shortest-Path Problem (Dijkstra’s Algorithm)
a prime example of greedy algorithm

Use a priority queue, First enqueue the start vertex and assign it as known, then update the distances of its adjacent vertices. Then use deletemin to find a unknown vertex V with smallest distance and assign it as known, use decreaseKey to update the distances of its adjacent vertices W to dv + C(v,w) if dv + C(v,w) is smaller than current dw. Repeat the strategy until there is no unkown vertices.

More optimizations would be introduced in later chapters.

## Graph with negative costs
Forget the concept of known and unknown. Dequeue the vertex, then update the distances of its adjacent vertices and enqueue them. Start with the start vertex and stop when the queue is empty. The time bound would be O(E*V).

## Acyclic graph
If the graph is acyclic, Dijkstra's algorithm could be imporved by selecting vertices in topological order. The time bound would be O(E+V)

### Activity-node Graph to Event-node Graph

Add dummy edges and nodes = If event A is dependent on B and C, add node A', add edge (B, A', 0), (C, A', 0), (A', A, cost(A))

Add dummy edges and nodes to activity-node graph to generate event-node graph. 
To find the earliest completion time, we need to find the longest path from the first event to other nodes. 
To find the latest completion time of every node without affecting the final time, just compute the mininal time cost of each node by reverse topological
order

The slack time of each event represents the amount of time that the completion of the event can be delayed without delaying the overall completion.
Slack(v, w) = LCw - ECv - C(v,w)
The path consisting of entirely zero-slack edges is a critical path.